introduction/policies-and-rules/member-rights.md, before:

---
description: Everyone is a Member in InkuA
---

# 🌟 Member Rights

Being a member means you not only are a part of InkuA, but you also **own the shared resources**, allowing you to copy, modify parts and grow the organization to the shape you want to make it your best experience possible.

Members are allowed to create and expand the structure, our core value: "Be Bold" promotes just that. &#x20;

All Members have the following rights:&#x20;

1. **Right to refuse requests** \
   Members can refuse requests if there is no corresponding explicit in the description of the Role being requested. However, the team must always accept requests that make sense for the mission of their Roles, even if no explicit responsibility is registered.
2. **Right to act on the mission**\
   You can always act in a way that furthers the purpose of your department
3. **Right to act heroically**\
   Members may temporarily ignore procedures, hierarchy or rules if it is useful and necessary to express the Department’s or the Organization's Mission. Initiatives or requests that have this quality are called "Heroic Acts". If there are a lot of heroic acts, the organization or organization probably has an outdated structure.
4. **Right to leave roles**\
   Members have the right to leave their roles in good faith of not compromising the department, project, teammates or the organization. This should be done with the express knowledge of the relevant members in the organization and with enough time before releasing the role when possible.&#x20;
5. **Right of expression**\
   Each Member is responsible for identifying their challenges based on each Role they fill. Each member is also responsible for trying to resolve these challenges, engaging other members in their Duties, or proposing changes to the Organizational Structure. To be clear, if someone feels a challenge, not to deal with it is a violation of their role. We need a good level of engagement from everyone.
6. **Duty of transparency**\
   When requested, members are expected to share all relevant information about the work of their Roles, including each project they are working on, identified actions, prioritization criteria and relevant metrics. When requested, Members are also expected to provide estimates and projections of possible completion dates for their work, even if these projections are not to be considered deadlines or commitments.
7. **Right of prioritization**\
   Members must prioritize their work in accordance with the priorities of the department defined by the Director or any other person that establishes priorities for the department. The person can come to an agreement with the Director  about the time he tends to spend on the role within the Department and when the person uses that time.
8. **Duty to attend**\
   When requested, Members should prioritize attending Department Meetings over working on their Roles in case a challenge needs to be addressed.
9. **Duty of preservation/respect**\
   One must respect roles, responsibilities and teams.
10. **Right to listen**\
    Anyone can request to be a listener in a department meeting, unless private or confidential information will be shared during the meeting.&#x20;

\

Commit message:

GITBOOK-39: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

introduction/policies-and-rules/member-rights.md, after:

---
description: Rights that apply to everyone on the organization
---

# 🌟 Member Rights

Being a member means you not only are a part of InkuA, but you also **own the shared resources**, allowing you to copy, modify parts and grow the organization to the shape you want to make it your best experience possible.

Members are allowed to create and expand the structure, our core value: "Be Bold" promotes just that. &#x20;

All Members have the following rights:&#x20;

1. **Right to refuse requests** \
   Members can refuse requests if there is no corresponding explicit in the description of the Role being requested. However, the team must always accept requests that make sense for the mission of their Roles, even if no explicit responsibility is registered.
2. **Ownership and Usage rights**\
   Shared resources are co-owned by all Members, you have the right to use, share or copy resources internally in a sustainable way. Members of a Department own the resources of their department, and can choose how to share them and how to improve them. Original authors of materials and work should always be mentioned when possible.&#x20;
3. **Right to be creative and bold**\
   Members that want to execute an experiment, project or idea that does not need extra resources or participation, are encouraged to do so. It will be the decision of a Director or President if the Member is granted extra resources for extra activities like publishing the material.&#x20;
4. **Right to act on the mission**\
   You can always act in a way that furthers the purpose of your department
5. **Right to act heroically**\
   Members may temporarily ignore procedures, hierarchy or rules if it is useful and necessary to express the Department’s or the Organization's Mission. Initiatives or requests that have this quality are called "Heroic Acts". If there are a lot of heroic acts, the organization or organization probably has an outdated structure.
6. **Right to leave roles**\
   Members have the right to leave their roles in good faith of not compromising the department, project, teammates or the organization. This should be done with the express knowledge of the relevant members in the organization and with enough time before releasing the role when possible.&#x20;
7. **Right of expression**\
   Each Member is responsible for identifying their challenges based on each Role they fill. Each member is also responsible for trying to resolve these challenges, engaging other members in their Duties, or proposing changes to the Organizational Structure. To be clear, if someone feels a challenge, not to deal with it is a violation of their role. We need a good level of engagement from everyone.
8. **Duty of transparency**\
   When requested, members are expected to share all relevant information about the work of their Roles, including each project they are working on, identified actions, prioritization criteria and relevant metrics. When requested, Members are also expected to provide estimates and projections of possible completion dates for their work, even if these projections are not to be considered deadlines or commitments.
9. **Right of prioritization**\
   Members must prioritize their work in accordance with the priorities of the department defined by the Director or any other person that establishes priorities for the department. The person can come to an agreement with the Director  about the time he tends to spend on the role within the Department and when the person uses that time.
10. **Duty to attend**\
    When requested, Members should prioritize attending Department Meetings over working on their Roles in case a challenge needs to be addressed.
11. **Duty of preservation/respect**\
    One must respect roles, responsibilities and teams.
12. **Right to listen**\
    Anyone can request to be a listener in a department meeting, unless private or confidential information will be shared during the meeting.&#x20;
13. **Right to a hearing**\
    Great organizations and individuals thrive in conflict. If you feel wronged by a decision, you can ask for a hearing of a board that can fix the decision and a moderator. \[How to request a hearing?]

\
